Work I'm back in the studio.
I'll show you the simple solution for the exercise dictionaries.
So you needed to read the dotted or the names see as we file and calculate which name was assigned.
Most of them in the whole USA.
So let's go ahead and start off by opening up the file.
And I'm going to open it with data slash names slash.
C is V.
And here I have to add another slash so that slash slash name starts his beat and way of opening it
up is going to be our.
So I'm reading the file now I need to have a dictionary which contains the names first so I'm going
to start off by using an empty names dictionary.
And now I will go through every single one of them and well we'll add it up to this names dictionary.
So I need a for loop which goes for through the whole file.
So for line in file I want to split it up first so call it split it again.
You know I know this word doesn't exist but split it in the terms of it is split where it has been split
in the past again then line that strip.
So now I need to strip it first because I don't want to have any empty spaces or any line breaks or
stuff like that.
And then I need to split it and I'm going to split it at a comma.
And now that I have split the line I can go ahead and check if at the position 1.
So splitted position zero actually does so in the first position.
If there is ID because if there is then just skip that continue because as you know we have this headline
of our file and it's ID then it is the name and so forth.
So these entries if they would just say OK we want to split the very first line of our file and if we
do that well we just skip it and we go to the next iteration.
So what else would I like to do in there.
Well I would like to sign this.
Split it at position 1 to my name and then I'm going to create a count variable as well which is going
to be the split it had position 5.
Now that itself is a string.
So I need to convert that into an integer.
All right.
And now I need to check if name names.
So the name that I'm currently looking at because as you see so we have this line and split it it's
just a line in a split way then I'm checking the name and getting the count and the Count as you know
is a string as well so I need to make an integer out of it.
Now I can check if the name is already in names because if it is already in names in our dictionary
then please go ahead and add that two names name plus count.
So the amount of entries that we have this name in our list already and otherwise go ahead and assign
count there well why is count important and not just plus one.
Well it's important because we store a specific value in here.
So as you can recall we had this line where we have the ID the name then the raw values about the turn
of gender and which state the person is born and all was born and then also the amount of times that
name was given and that's the counter we're looking at.
So we need to have this count in order to add that to the total.
So now we're just saying with this for loop check through the for all the names and get us the total
for that name.
And this is our fault for this task.
Now let's add another.
So we're we're just going to check the occurrences in order to compare which name is the one that has
most occurrences in total.
So we create another variable here Max occurrences and we set it to zero first.
Now I need to have this name variable because I would like to show it on the screen because I want to
know which name was in the end given most times right.
And then I can go ahead and use my tuple approach here.
So key value in names dot items so names is our dictionary as you might recall from here.
Is this a dictionary.
So we go through all the items in our dictionary and we create a tuple out of it and we check if Max
underscore occurrences.
And I have typed that incorrectly Yes I'm just going to copy and paste it now is less than the value.
And if that's the case then please go ahead and say Max occurrences is going to be value and to name
is going to be the key.
And now finally we can go ahead and print the name.
So why does this four function work.
Well it goes through all the items it checks.
Each time is the one that I'm currently looking at.
So the name that I'm currently looking at is the value that is there.
So the the amount of times this name was given is higher than our max occurrences.
And if that's the case well then we have a new winner.
So then we have a new name that was given most of the times.
That's why we just said Okay now that's the amount of mix occurrences.
And then we can print the name because the key of that specific item that we're looking at is the one
that is our winner right.
That's a record holder pretty much.
And now we can go ahead and display the name now.
The Mexicans as we can them displayed those as well Max on the score of currencies.
And why do we do that.
Why do we have these variables outside.
Well we need them in order to assign the values accordingly and to keep them out of this for loop in
the sense of they will always be to pretty much to viewers from the outside that they will only be changed
if it's really necessary and once they are done we can go ahead and print the name.
So once these Fulop is done only then we want to print.
Of course we could have printed within the for loop but then it would print us all the time the new
record holder and of course we could try that but let's first try to run the code like that and I have
the problem with names and that's because I didn't execute that code so let's execute cell number 1
and then execute some number 2.
And as you see it takes a little while because the file is pretty big.
Get there we are.
We see James was given four million nine hundred and fifty seven times or fifty seven thousand one hundred
sixty six times.
So James is a very loved name.
People love to call their children James as it seems.
All right so this name was given five million times in the last century.
Pretty impressive.
Now we can of course print something here where we just say OK print value and print.
And now gives me Mary who is three point seventy four million.
Then we have John almost 5 million and James also almost 5 million but a little more.
All right.
So I hope you managed to get this done if you didn't.
No worries.
But now you have another example of what you already can do with your skills.
So it's pretty cool.
You can now try to play around with it.
Of course you could figure out how to show they did best 100 or the highest 100 numbers.
Stuff like that.
So yeah.
Feel free to do so.
And in the next video we are going to quickly check out how to nest data structures.
So see you there.